# Santander Bikes investigation for interview technical assessment
Using the Citi Bike monthly reports (https://citibikenyc.com/system-data/operating-reports) and information found about the Santander Cycle scheme online (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santander_Cycles), I found the two schemes to be similar. Also, New York is a similarly sized area and population to London so the Citi Bike scheme seemed to be a good comparison to the Santander cycles scheme and one from which lessons could be learnt about how best to target expansions to different areas.

Having read about some struggles with the Citi Bike scheme in poorer areas and recent expansions to the scheme to cover more of these areas resulting in greater ridership from these communities, I decided to create some visualisations to show the scale of the problem in London using New York as a benchmark for success. I first plotted the number of stations in each scheme throughout the years to show that the Citi Bike scheme is expanding much faster, especially in recent years. 

Then, I looked to plot the docking stations in both schemes, noticing that the Citi Bike scheme now extends to areas far outside the centre of the city. By contrast, London has a very central distribution of stations with very few in the surrounding areas. I then put on an overlay of the London Local Authority (LA) boundaries which were coloured to represent their ranking amongst all LAs in England. This showed a clear lack of stations in what are some of the most deprived areas in England, let alone London. This suggests that these LAs (Hackney, Islington, Newham and Lewisham) are potential areas for expansion for the scheme. Moreover, there is a high prevalence of childhood obesity in Hackney and Newham based on the population obesity profiles and therefore stations in these LAs could encourage the public to get active through a cheap, accessible method of transport and exercise.